---
layout: example
title: Large-Scale Simulation of a Type Ia Supernova 
image: gallery-32-large.jpg
image_credits: George C. Jordan [ASC FLASH CENTER](http://flash.uchicago.edu/website/home/) University of Chicago
---
This image is from a large scale simulation of a type Ia supernova. A type
Ia supernova is believed to be a small star called a white dwarf (a star
about the size of the earth with the mass of about 1.4 times that of the sun)
that detonates and releases a huge amount of energy. In the image,the blue
contour is of density at 1x10^6 g/cm^3 which approximately represents the
location of the surface of a white dwarf star and the orange contour is a
variable that tracks an interface behind which is the ash left over from
nuclear burning.

In this simulation, we start with a tiny spark slightly off center inside of
the star. This spark will cause a nuclear flame to spread, burning nuclear fuel
and forming a large, hot, buoyant bubble. This bubble quickly grows and rises.
After a short period of time (about a second) the bubble bursts out of the
surface of the star ejecting the burnt nuclear fuel (ash) flying into space.

The gravity at the surface to the star is very strong however so the ash, which
is now moving very fast, gets confined to the surface of the star. This ash spews
from the surface of the star like a fountain and since it's confined to the surface
of star it very quickly spreads to cover the surface and will eventually collide
with itself at the opposite point of where it broke out. We believe this violent
collision will cause a detonation that will blow up the entire star. The image
shows the simulation after the hot bubble has broken through the surface and the
ash is spreading around the surface of the star.
