---
layout: page
title: "VisIt Image Gallery"
permalink: "/gallery/"
---

{% include gallery
images="
gallery-04.jpg:The featured plot shows an elevation map of Europe produced from a rectilinear NetCDF dataset in which cells at sea level have been removed. Data courtesy of Peter Goldstein Ph.D. LLNL.;
gallery-05.jpg:The featured plot is a volume plot of the logarithm of gas/dust density in an Enzo star and galaxy simulation. Regions of high density are white while less dense regions are more blue and also more transparent. The data used to make this image were provided by Tom Abel Ph.D. and Matthew Turk of the Kavli Institute for Particle Astrophysics and Cosmology.;
gallery-06.jpg:VisIt can plot curves from data read from files and it can be used to extract and plot curve data from higher dimensional datasets using lineout operators or queries. The curves in the featured image correspond to elevation data along lines drawn on DEM data and were created using VisIt's lineout capability. Lineout allows you to interactively draw a line which specfies a path for data extraction. The resulting data was then plotted as curves.;
gallery-07.jpg:The featured plot contains a Mesh plot of a Porsche 911 model imported from a NASTRAN bulk data file. VisIt can read a limited subset of NASTRAN bulk data files, generally enough to import model geometry for visualization. Data courtesy of AVL's 3D mesh gallery.;
gallery-08.jpg:The featured image displays plots of a CGNS dataset representing a YF-17 jet aircraft. The dataset consists of an unstructured grid with solution. VisIt created the image using a pseudocolor plot of the dataset's Mach variable, a mesh plot of the grid, and vector plot of a slice through the velocity field. VisIt 1.5 and later can read CGNS files. The dataset was provided by the CGNS user community's Example Files page.
gallery-09.jpg:
The featured plot shows Leaf Area Index (LAI), a measure of global vegetative matter, from a NetCDF dataset. The primary plot is the large plot at the bottom, which shows the LAI for the whole world. The plots on top are actually annotations that contain images that VisIt generated earlier. Image annotations can be used to include material that enhances a visualization such as auxiliary plots, images of experimental data, project logos, etc. The data in the featured image was obtained via the Internet from NASA.;
gallery-10.jpg:Image courtesy of Patrick Chris Fragile Ph.D., UC Santa Barbara.;
gallery-11.jpg:VisIt supports structured Adaptive Mesh Refinement (AMR). The featured image shows logarithm of density from a Boxlib dataset.;
gallery-12.jpg:This visualization uses various plots to show the geometry and flow induced by heating of a coil inside a cylinder with solution. The input dataset is an unstructured mesh (mixed element types) stored in CGNS format. The streamlines show the flow through the solution. The dataset was provided by the CGNS user community's Example Files page. [Download the dataset];
gallery-13.jpg:VisIt can read several file formats common in the field of Geographic Information Systems (GIS), allowing you to plot raster data such as terrain data in your visualizations. The featured image shows a plot of a DEM dataset containing mountainous areas near Dunsmuir, CA. Elevation lines are added to the plot to help delineate changes in elevation. The DEM dataset used to create the featured image was obtained from the USGS.;
gallery-14.jpg:VisIt can read several file formats common in the field of Geographic Information Systems (GIS), allowing you to incorporate raster and vector data from multiple sources in a single visualization. The featured image shows a top view (zoomed in) of Livermore, CA, with roads superimposed and labeled on top of colors corresponding to elevation.;
gallery-15.jpg:VisIt can put multiple plots in a single visualization, allowing you to visualize data in multiple ways. The featured image shows four representations of Mount St. Helens elevation data from a DEM file. The DEM dataset used to create the featured image was obtained from the USGS.;
gallery-16.jpg:The featured visualization includes multiple views of a human brain dataset, stored in the ANALYZE file format, that was originally obtained by MRI. The ANALYZE dataset used in the visualization was provided by James E. Dobson of the Psychological and Brain Sciences faculty at Dartmouth College.;
gallery-17.jpg:The featured visualization shows a pseudocolor plot highlighting active regions of the brain during fMRI. View a movie [MPEG 442 Kb]. The ANALYZE dataset used in the visualization was provided by James E. Dobson of the Psychological and Brain Sciences faculty at Dartmouth College.;
gallery-18.jpg:The featured visualization contains a volume plot showing the details of individual stained cells. Note how the volume plot uses transparency to permit 3D structure (nucleus, etc.) inside the cell to be visible from the exterior.;
gallery-19.jpg:VisIt's general plotting capabilities were used to create the molecular rendering shown in the featured visualization. The original data was taken from the Protein Data Bank and turned into a VTK file before rendering in VisIt.;
gallery-20.jpg:This image is included courtesy of Sean Ahern, ORNL.;
gallery-21.jpg:The featured plot shows that VisIt can be used to render mathematical functions.;
gallery-22.jpg:VisIt's Scatter plot allows you to visualize multivariate data of up to four dimensions. The Scatter plot takes multiple scalar variables and uses them for different axes in phase space. The different variables are combined to form coordinates in the phase space and they are displayed using glyphs and colored using another scalar variable.;
gallery-23.jpg:The plot at the left represents burn through a high explosive. The gray contour represents the burn front while the blue and yellow materials represent air gaps in the material corresponding to unburned and burned material, respectively. View a movie [MPEG 1.23 Mb] The data used to make the movie are courtesy of Jack Reaugh Ph.D., LLNL.;
gallery-24.jpg:The featured plot shows material ablating from a post.;
gallery-25.jpg:VisIt read in an ESRI shapefile containing a polygonal description of the building footprints and then resampled the polygons onto a rectilinear grid, which was extruded into the featured cityscape.;
gallery-26.jpg:The featured plot is a slightly zoomed in view of a Pseudocolor plot of laser filamentation from a 12.7 billion cell (per time step) rectilinear grid dataset created at LLNL. The dataset is the largest dataset processed with VisIt to date. When the dataset is plotted in VisIt, you can zoom in on the image three more times from this view before you can even see the individual computational cells. VisIt rendered different views of the dataset every 2-3 seconds using 400 processors of LLNL's Thunder supercomputer. The data used in the featured image are courtesy of Steven Langer Ph.D., LLNL.;
gallery-27.jpg:The featured image contains a Truecolor plot that has been elevated using the Elevate operator to create the VisIt 1.5 splashscreen. Two JPEG images were used (one for the texture and one for the height map used for the Elevate operator). The height image, which contains the design, was mapped onto the texture image's mesh using the conn_cmfe expression. The resulting height field was then used to elevate the texture image.;
gallery-28.jpg:The DJEHUTY stellar evolution code was used to calcuate the explosion of SN 1987A model in three dimensions, including the production and distribution of radioactive Ni-56, which powers most of the light emanating after the first few days. The explosion was initiated by placing 2 × 1051 ergs of energy within the innermost 150 km of the model. The initial density field was perturbed 10% to allow instabilities to grow, which is mandated by observations. Self-gravity was run in the spherical approximation but was centered on a self-consistently calculated center of mass. The simulation encompassed the whole star, contained 11 million cells, and was run on 512 processors of LLNL's Frost supercomputer for 36 hours. The resulting dataset was approximately 2 terabytes.;
gallery-29.jpg:The featured visualization shows the motion of materials and the paths of laser rays in a 3D HYDRA simulation of a NIF ignition target. The simulation models the entire target, including all of the relevant features and the detailed laser illumination pattern. It was performed on LLNL's massively parallel IBM ASC Frost platform. The image's left window shows a cut away view of the material boundaries. Representative rays from two pairs of the laser beams are shown in red and green. These burn through the hohlraum window and fill gas (not shown).;
gallery-30.jpg:VisIt was used to visualize the results from the SAMRAI simulation framework of an atmospheric anomaly in and around Times Square. A high resolution satellite image of Manhattan was combined with the visualization to provide visual context. In addition, to add realism during the fly-through sequence, VisIt uses a sky-blue background and renders the buildings with shadows. In the final sequence showing a slice through the anomaly at ground level, VisIt's expression feature is used to render a few quantization levels of interest.  View a movie [MPEG 47.1 Mb] The data used to make the movie are courtesy of Andrew Wissink Ph.D., LLNL.;
gallery-31.jpg:The visualization to the left depicts a large-eddy simulation of Raleigh-Taylor instability at an Atwood number of 1/2. The simulation was conducted on a 720 × 720 × 1620 point grid using 1620 processors, taking 20 days, and generating 20 terabytes of data.;
gallery-32.jpg;
gallery-33.jpg;
gallery-34.jpg;
gallery-35.jpg;
gallery-36.jpg;
gallery-37.jpg;
gallery-38.jpg;
gallery-39.jpg;
gallery-40.jpg;
gallery-41.jpg;
gallery-42.jpg"
%}
